And this is possible. Is that why you deleted Twitter? Well.
Yeah, it's off my phone. Yes. Um, so you haven't deleted your account, have you?
No, I'm still on Twitter, but I, I, I will, uh, based on this recent episode,
I will use it dntly I am.
Fascinated by people and their struggles with social media. Yeah.
With like detaching from it,
reattaching from it getting addicted to it. I mean,
I know so many people that will look at their Twitter at like one o'clock in the
morning before they go to bed and something them off and then they can't sleep.
Yeah. Wow. Oh yeah. Well, it's really common. I, I was.
Not, I, I, I don't consider myself someone who had a, a,
a real pathology with it. I mean, I was, you know, I, I, I have, I don't know,
6,000 tweets or 7,000 tweets over the course of over the many years. Um,
so I'm not, I was not tweeting that much. I was not even looking that much.
I was, I was fairly, uh,
disengaged and I've never used Facebook as a, I've never,
I just used Facebook as kind of a publishing channel.
I never engaged with comments, but I was looking at enough. And it,
it was, I mean, one, it was clearly making me a worse person. I mean, I just,
it was, I was, I was reacting to stuff that I didn't need to react to.
And it was amplifying certain, uh, criticisms and, and voices,
which need not have been amplified. And in this, in this last case,
it just turned a, I mean, it just, it, it created a, a,
a huge kind of explosion in my life. It was in the middle of a vacation,
which I basically torpedo because of what I saw on Twitter. I mean,
it was just, it was like the,
the perfect infomercial for why you don't want to be engaged with.
Me. Torpedtoed your are vacation. How well.
So I'm in the middle of like the first vacation I've taken with my family for in
a very long time. It was at least a year. And wow. And we're, so I we're,
you know, we're on Hawaii and just like,
I'm supposed to put everything down to be the best father and husband I can be.
Right. And, and that was my intention. That's what was happening. Uh,
it happened for a good solid 24 hours. <laugh> and,
and then I pick up my phone and I see that,
that Reza Oslan and Glen greenwa and Ezra Klein had all attacked me in the
space of an hour. Oh, right. No, this is like, no.
So this goes out to millions of people at, and is this over.
That what he was asked Joe was asking about the Charles Murray thing.
Yes. Yeah. Well, I, truth is I can't even see what I,
I didn't look at what greenwa had done. Um,
he was circulating somebody video about me, how I'm,
I think I'm a racist in that video re Olan blocks me.
So I can't even see what he attacks me by name, but he blocks me so that he,
so I can't even see what his, his expert that'silarious, but, uh, so I, I,
but I just saw the, the aftermath of that, you know, lots of stuff, you know,
lots of notifications coming to me with both of us tagged, um,
and then Ezra publish this. I mean, I suppose I should back up, uh,
however painfully to, to describe what happened here. But,
so I had Charles Murray on my podcast a year ago, and Charles Murray is this,
this, um, social scientist who, uh,
published the bell curve back in the nineties, which it was a,
a book about IQ and, and success in,
in Western societies like our own. And, uh, uh,
it's a book where he worries a lot about the cognitive stratification of
society. We have a society that is selecting more and more for a narrow band of,
of talents that are very well, fairly well D by what we call IQ.
And there is a kind of winner take all situation where people are really,
you know, 500 years ago, if you had a,
a very high IQ and you're, you're just pushing a plow next to your neighbor.
You had no real advantage,
but now you can start a hedge fund or you can start a software company.
And we're, we're seeing the, this, this real, uh, shocking disparity mm. In,
in, uh, good fortune, really. Uh, so, uh,
he wrote this book, it had a, a chapter on race,
which talked about the disparities in, in, in racial, uh, groups,
uh, the statistically.
Observed.
Disparities. Right? Yeah. And, uh,
the claim about the source of those disparities was by even the
standards of the time, but certainly the standards of today,
incredibly tepid, mealy, mouthed, just hand waving. It was not this,
you know, here comes the third RKE declaration of, of white supremacy. It was
undoubtedly, there are environmental and genetic reasons for this,
and we don't understand them. You know, it was just, it was just like to,
to think that as one or the other,
we're not in a position to know what the mix is of, of, of influences now. Um,
and that is, uh, virtually any honest scientists take on the matter.
Um, <affirmative> and to certainly today, I mean, that's only become more so,
uh, but that went off like a nuclear bomb. I mean, that was just,
so that was such a, um, uh, I mean, it's, it's the most,
um, I, so, and at the time I never read the book.
I just thought this had to be just racist of.
Of course, Carls Murray would be vilified for.
For the, that observation. And he he's been vilified ever since. And ever since,
you know, I've ignored him, wasn't he de-platformed.
And assaulted recently.
Yeah. So that's what happened. So, so he went to Middlebury to give a talk,
you know, 20, uh, some odd years, 25 years after he wrote this book.
Oh, by the way, he's also listed by the Southern bsley law center. Oh.
And so that, that,
that's what contributed to the D he platforming and the violent protest against
him at middleburye what's.
Crazy is the whole thing is a propaganda for the superiority of the Asian race.
And everyone's missing that <laugh> yeah. Yeah. That's the flip side of it.
Then we're talking about why it supremacy Asian Asians. Areactually the ones.
Far and above. I mean, that's basically what is booked proved and, you know,
they're suing Harvard.
Now there's a group of Asian students that SU suing Harvard because they're
discriminated against because they're required to have higher scores. Yeah.
Because they're assumed to be smarter. Wow.
So the standards for Asian students entering it to Harvard is higher than white
people.
Wow. Yes. Well, Asian privilege is a, is a big problem. <laugh> it's yeah. Your,
your grandfather was working on the railroads in California as an,
an indenture servant. And, uh, all that privilege trickled down. There's.
Obviously a lot of factors that lead to IQ to, to H IQ,
but to ignore what those are, to ignore it completely to dis in the name of, in,
in the name of ideology course yes. Only ideology.
And this idea that cannot look at statistics,
you cannot look at facts and in your conversation with Ezra,
Charles that's what or Ezra Klein rather that's what I got is that this is,
this is an ideological issue and that you, you,
it's almost like an impossible subject to breach. Yeah.
Like you can't even discuss the fact that certain races
demonstrate low IQ.
And then let's look at what could be the cause of those even discussing that
somehow or another is so inherently racist that it must be ignored or must be
silenced. And that you,
you must first concentrate on all the various injustices that have been done to
those people who have this lower.
IQ. Yeah. Well,
let me just take a couple of minutes to close the very various doors to hell
that are now a jar based on what we've just said. <laugh>.
So you were on your holiday and you get O.
Let yeah. So, so, well, just a little more context. So, so yeah, as you said,
Charles Murray went to Middlebury college and was deplatformed and he was not
only deplatformed.
So the usual deplatforming with the students turning their back to the speaker
and shouting and not letting anything happen. But the professor who invited him,
who was a liberal professor who wanted to essentially debate him,
she was attacked. Yeah. When they're leaving the hall,
they both get physically attacked by a, a, a crowd of students. Charles was,
was not hurt his host.
This female professor got a concussion and a neck injury that,
that still persists. And this now more a year later. So like, she was,
I actually, I think she's a registered demodemocratdemocrat by this no doubt.
And, and they're driving out in an SUV where that gets, I mean, someone pulls a,
a stop sign out of the, the,
the sidewalk and has still got the concrete ball on the end of it.
And that this SUV gets smashed with this, you know, concrete late and stop sign.
I mean, this was,
this is happening at one of the most liberal privileged colleges
on earth. Uh it's nuts. So anyway,
that was the thing that put Murray on my radar after all these many years of my
ignoring him and I had actually,
and I felt guilty because I had declined to be a part of at least one project
because his name was attached. Right.
Because I just saw that this guy's radioactive he's, he's got some white,
supremac a J and, uh, I had believed the, the, the, the lies about him.
Uh, and then I saw this and I thought, okay,
well maybe he's the Canary in the coal mine, or,
or certainly one of the canariess in the coal mine that I had ignored where the,
as you say, there are, these certain topics are considered,
so politically fraught that you cannot discuss them no matter what is true,
mm-hmm, <affirmative> like, like it's just a, you know,
there has to be a firewall between your conversation about reality
and these sorts of facts. Uh, and so,
you know, so he's been, you know,
suffering from having transgresssed that boundary. And so I had him on the,
on the podcast, uh,
being fairly agnostic about his,
his actual social policy commitments and his political, uh, concerns.
And just wanting to talk about, uh, you know, the,
the facts insofar as we touched them lightly. I mean, I had zero interest in,
in intelligence as measured by IQ. Uh, although, I mean,
it's an interesting subject, but I hadn't, you know,
I hadn't spent much time focused on that. And I had, uh,
truly zero interest in establishing differences between populations with respect
to intelligence or anything else. But I see what's coming. I see the fact that,
that the more we understand ourselves genetically and environmentally,
the more we will, if we go looking, or even if we're not looking,
we will discover differences between groups and the end game for
us as a species is not to deny that those differences exist or could possibly
exist it's to
deny that they have real political implication. I mean, the, the,
the political imp the, the political framework we need is a commitment to,
to equality across the board and a,
a commitment to treating individuals as individuals. There's nobody, who's a,
the, the average of a population is meaningless with respect to you.
That will always be so, and, um, and whatever, you know,
and whatever diversity of talents there is statistically in various populations.
We want societies that simply don't
care politically about that. I mean, that's just, it's just not what it's
the, our,
our political tolerance of one another and support of one another is not
predicated on denying individual differences or even statistical differences
across groups. It can't be because we know that there are people walking around,
like, uh, you know,
Elon Musk who gets outta bed in the every morning and does the work like 4,000
people, right. And people who just are,
are struggling to work at Starbucks and hold down a job and our
political system, I mean, this, we,
we don't say one person is more valuable politically and socially than another,
even though one person's capable of doing massive things that, that, that, that,
uh, many, most other people aren't, it's, you know, when it comes time to,
to write laws and create institutions that protect that,
that support human flourishing, we,
we have to engineer tides that raise all the boats. And so, you know, and, and,
you know,
there are legitimate debates about the social policies that will do that, but,
and there are legitimate debates about facts.
So we can debate scientific fact and, and, you know, the, the results of,
you know, psychometric testing or,
or behavioral genetics that are relevant to this question of intelligence, uh,
and we can have a good faith debate about the data.
And then we can have a good faith debate about social policy that should follow
from the data.
But what's happening on the left now is on either at either of those
tearss of conversation, there are just straight up allegations of, of,
of racism that hits you. Mm-hmm, <affirmative> the moments you certain,
certain facts. Can I say.